README.md, before:

# Panda Simulator [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/justagist/panda_simulator.svg?branch=melodic-devel)](https://travis-ci.org/justagist/panda_simulator) [![DOI](https://zenodo.org/badge/DOI/10.5281/zenodo.3747459.svg)](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3747459)

<!-- Latest version: [![GitHub release (latest by date including pre-releases)](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/justagist/panda_simulator?include_prereleases&style=flat)](https://github.com/justagist/panda_simulator/tags) -->

A **Gazebo simulator** for the Franka Emika Panda robot with ROS interface, providing exposed **controllers** and real-time **robot state feedback** similar to the real robot when using the [*franka-ros*][franka-ros] package.

Latest Stable Release (ROS Melodic): [![GitHub release (latest by date)](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/justagist/panda_simulator?style=flat)](https://github.com/justagist/panda_simulator/tags)

*(version 1.0.0)* - **Now Supports [MoveIt!](https://moveit.ros.org/)** (See [version log](https://github.com/justagist/panda_simulator/blob/melodic-devel/versionLog.md) for details)

## Features

- Low-level *controllers* (joint position, velocity, torque) available that can be controlled through ROS topics (including position control for gripper) or [Python API][fri-repo].
- Real-time *robot state* (end-effector state, joint state, controller state, etc.) available through ROS topics.
- The [*Franka ROS Interface*][fri-repo] package (which is a ROS interface for controlling the real Panda robot) and [PandaRobot][https://github.com/justagist/panda_robot] Python API can also be used with the panda_simulator, providing kinematics and dynamics computation for the robot, and direct *sim-to-real* code transfer.
- Supports MoveIt planning and control for Franka Panda Emika robot and arm and Franka Gripper.

### Control and Monitor robot using Python API

Python API: [Franka ROS Interface][fri-repo], [PandaRobot](https://github.com/justagist/panda_robot)

  ![vid](assets/panda_robot_demo.gif)
 Watch video [here](https://youtu.be/4bEVysUIvOY)

  ![vid](assets/panda_simulator.gif)
 Watch video [here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NdSbXC0r7tU)

### Control using MoveIt

  ![vid](assets/moveit_demo.gif)
 Watch video [here](https://youtu.be/a_HEmYzqEnk)

### Installation

ROS Melodic (melodic-devel branch): [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/justagist/panda_simulator.svg?branch=melodic-devel)](https://travis-ci.org/justagist/panda_simulator)

ROS Kinetic (kinetic-devel branch): [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/justagist/panda_simulator.svg?branch=kinetic-devel)](https://travis-ci.org/justagist/panda_simulator)

#### Dependencies

- *libfranka* (`apt install ros-${ROS_DISTRO}-libfranka` or [install from source][libfranka-doc])
- *franka-ros* (`apt install ros-${ROS_DISTRO}-franka-ros` or [install from source][libfranka-doc])
- `pip install -r requirements.txt`

For other possible missing dependencies, check the `apt` packages specified in Dockerfile.

The following dependencies can be installed using the `.rosinstall` file (instructions in next section)

- [*Franka ROS Interface*][fri-repo]
- [*franka_panda_description*][fpd-repo] (urdf and model files from *panda_description* package modified to work in Gazebo, and with the custom controllers)
- [*orocos-kinematics-dynamics*](https://github.com/orocos/orocos_kinematics_dynamics)

#### Building the Package

1.Clone the repo:

```bash
    cd <catkin_ws>/src
    git clone https://github.com/justagist/panda_simulator
```

Steps 2 and 3 can be automated by running `./build_ws.sh` from `<catkin_ws>/src/panda_simulator`.

2.Update dependency packages:

```bash
    wstool init
    wstool merge panda_simulator/dependencies.rosinstall
    wstool up

    # use old ros-compatible version of kdl
    cd orocos_kinematics_dynamics && git checkout b35c424e77ebc5b7e6f1c5e5c34f8a4666fbf5bc
    cd ../.. && rosdep install -y --from-paths src --ignore-src --rosdistro $ROS_DISTRO
```

3.Once the dependencies are met, the package can be installed using catkin_make:

```bash
    source /opt/ros/$ROS_DISTRO/setup.bash
    catkin build # if catkin not found, install catkin tools (apt install python-catkin-tools)
    source devel/setup.bash
```

### Docker Build (experimental!)

**Requires [nvidia-docker](https://github.com/nvidia/nvidia-docker/wiki/Installation-(version-2.0))**

*NOTE: The image for kinetic version is larger than that of the melodic version (~ 1.5x). This is because it uses [cudagl](https://hub.docker.com/r/nvidia/cudagl) image as base to facilitate rendering (without this, opengl does not seem to work for kinetic docker image, and rviz and gazebo fails to load).*

- To build the docker image of the package, run `docker build docker/ -t ps_${ROS_DISTRO}:v1.0.0`, or pull built image from github (`docker pull docker.pkg.github.com/justagist/panda_simulator/ps_${ROS_DISTRO}:v1.0.0`).
Note: Even when using the docker image, this repository has to be cloned on to the host machine.
- To run the built image interactively, run the script `./run_docker.sh` from the cloned repository. The container starts in a catkin workspace (directory location in host machine: `$HOME/.panda_sim_${ROS_DISTRO}_ws`). The host's home directory is also mounted in the container for access to `.ros/` and for making the catkin workspace writable.
- When running for the first time, the catkin workspace has to be built (`cd src/panda_simulator && ./build_ws.sh`).
- If everything was successfully built in the previous step, you should be able to run the simulator (see [Usage](#usage) section below).

Any edits made to the host directory will be reflected in the docker container (and vice-versa). You can also run and build other ROS nodes and packages without having any ROS installation on the host machine.

### Usage

The simulator can be started by running:

```bash
    roslaunch panda_gazebo panda_world.launch # (use argument load_gripper:=false for starting without gripper; see other available arguments in launch file)
```

To start without moveit server, add the argument `start_moveit:=false` to the command. This is sometimes necessary for starting nodes in the right order

This exposes a variety of ROS topics and services for communicating with and controlling the robot in simulation. The robot can also be controlled using the [Franka ROS Interface](https://github.com/justagist/franka_ros_interface) package and/or [PandaRobot](https://github.com/justagist/panda_robot) APIs.

#### Demos

To run these demos, launch the simulator first: `roslaunch panda_gazebo panda_world.launch`. The following demos can then be tested:

- Run `roslaunch panda_simulator_examples demo_moveit.launch` to run a demo for testing the moveit planner interface with the simulated robot. This script starts a moveit RViz GUI for motion planning and terminal interface for modifying planning scene.

- Run `roslaunch panda_simulator_examples demo_task_space_control.launch` to run a demo showing the task-space control. By default, the demo uses the (Franka ROS Interface) API to retrieve state information, and to control it using torque control (see [script](panda_simulator_examples/scripts/task_space_control_with_fri.py)). Another script demonstrating the same functionality without using the Franka ROS Interface API, and only the ROS
topics from the simulation is also [provided](panda_simulator_examples/scripts/task_space_control_using_sim_only.py).

- Another (much simpler) demo ['move_robot.py'](panda_simulator_examples/scripts/task_space_control_using_sim_only.py) is provided demonstrating (i) controlling the robot in the joint space, (ii) retrieving state information of the robot.

##### Task-space Impedance Control Demo

  ![vid](assets/ts_demo.gif)
 Watch video [here](https://youtu.be/a_HEmYzqEnk)

#### Some useful ROS topics

##### Published Topics

| ROS Topic | Data |
| ------ | ------ |
| */panda_simulator/custom_franka_state_controller/robot_state* | gravity, coriolis, jacobian, cartesian velocity, etc. |
| */panda_simulator/custom_franka_state_controller/tip_state* | end-effector pose, wrench, etc. |
| */panda_simulator/joint_states* | joint positions, velocities, efforts |

##### Subscribed Topics

| ROS Topic | Data |
| ------ | ------ |
| */panda_simulator/motion_controller/arm/joint_commands* | command the robot using the currently active controller |
| */panda_simulator/franka_gripper/move* | (action msg) command the joints of the gripper |

Other topics for changing the controller gains (also dynamically configurable), command timeout, etc. are also available.

#### ROS Services

Controller manager service can be used to switch between all available controllers (joint position, velocity, effort). Gripper joints can be controlled using the ROS ActionClient (via the same topics as the real robot and [*franka_ros*][franka-ros]).

### Known Issues

1. In some computers, the launch file fails to start the trajectory controller server, or starts the required nodes in a different order. This may result in different errors with the moveit servers, or with the controller manager. In this case, the simplest option is to start the simulator without moveit (`roslaunch panda_gazebo panda_world.launch start_moveit:=false`), and then start the moveit server separately once the simulator is fully loaded (`roslaunch panda_sim_moveit sim_move_group.launch`).

2. `[ERROR] Exception while loading planning adapter plugin 'default_planner_request_adapters/ResolveConstraintFrames` in melodic. This can be [safely ignored](https://github.com/ros-planning/moveit/issues/1655).

3. Gripper control and model definition is not completely developed, and gripper control may not produce the required performance.

4. Gravity compensation when using velocity or torque controller with gripper is not very good. This is bypassed by deactivating simulator gravity by default (see [`panda.world`](panda_gazebo/worlds/panda.world)).

### Version Update

Check [versionLog.md](https://github.com/justagist/panda_simulator/blob/melodic-devel/versionLog.md).

## Related Packages

- [*Franka ROS Interface*][fri-repo] : A ROS API for controlling and managing the Franka Emika Panda robot (real and simulated). Contains controllers for the robot (joint position, velocity, torque), interfaces for the gripper, controller manager, coordinate frames interface, etc.. Provides almost complete sim-to-real transfer of code.
- [*PandaRobot*](https://github.com/justagist/panda_robot) : Python interface providing higher-level control of the robot integrated with its gripper, controller manager, coordinate frames manager, etc. It also provides access to the kinematics and dynamics of the robot using the [KDL library](http://wiki.ros.org/kdl).

The [*Franka ROS Interface*][fri-repo] package provides Python API and interface tools to control and communicate with the robot using the ROS topics and services exposed by the simulator. Since the simulator exposes similar information and controllers as the *robot_state_controller_node* of the [*Franka ROS Interface*][fri-repo], the API can be used to control both the real robot, and the simulated robot in this package, with minimum change in code.

### License

[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache%202.0-blue.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/Apache-2.0)

Copyright (c) 2019-2020, Saif Sidhik

If you use this software, please cite it using [![DOI](https://zenodo.org/badge/DOI/10.5281/zenodo.3747459.svg)](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3747459).

   [fri-repo]: <https://github.com/justagist/franka_ros_interface>
   [fpd-repo]: <https://github.com/justagist/franka_panda_description>
   [libfranka-doc]: <https://frankaemika.github.io/docs/installation_linux.html#building-from-source>
   [franka-ros]: <https://frankaemika.github.io/docs/franka_ros.html>

Commit message:

Add notes about this fork to README

README.md, after:

# Panda Simulator [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/justagist/panda_simulator.svg?branch=melodic-devel)](https://travis-ci.org/justagist/panda_simulator) [![DOI](https://zenodo.org/badge/DOI/10.5281/zenodo.3747459.svg)](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3747459)

<!-- Latest version: [![GitHub release (latest by date including pre-releases)](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/justagist/panda_simulator?include_prereleases&style=flat)](https://github.com/justagist/panda_simulator/tags) -->

A **Gazebo simulator** for the Franka Emika Panda robot with ROS interface, providing exposed **controllers** and real-time **robot state feedback** similar to the real robot when using the [*franka-ros*][franka-ros] package.

Latest Stable Release (ROS Melodic): [![GitHub release (latest by date)](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/justagist/panda_simulator?style=flat)](https://github.com/justagist/panda_simulator/tags)

*(version 1.0.0)* - **Now Supports [MoveIt!](https://moveit.ros.org/)** (See [version log](https://github.com/justagist/panda_simulator/blob/melodic-devel/versionLog.md) for details)

## Notes about this fork

This fork and the `rlg_realworld_stack` branch were created for compatibility with [this](https://github.com/liruiw/franka_ros_interface) Franka ROS Interface fork.

## Features

- Low-level *controllers* (joint position, velocity, torque) available that can be controlled through ROS topics (including position control for gripper) or [Python API][fri-repo].
- Real-time *robot state* (end-effector state, joint state, controller state, etc.) available through ROS topics.
- The [*Franka ROS Interface*][fri-repo] package (which is a ROS interface for controlling the real Panda robot) and [PandaRobot][https://github.com/justagist/panda_robot] Python API can also be used with the panda_simulator, providing kinematics and dynamics computation for the robot, and direct *sim-to-real* code transfer.
- Supports MoveIt planning and control for Franka Panda Emika robot and arm and Franka Gripper.

### Control and Monitor robot using Python API

Python API: [Franka ROS Interface][fri-repo], [PandaRobot](https://github.com/justagist/panda_robot)

  ![vid](assets/panda_robot_demo.gif)
 Watch video [here](https://youtu.be/4bEVysUIvOY)

  ![vid](assets/panda_simulator.gif)
 Watch video [here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NdSbXC0r7tU)

### Control using MoveIt

  ![vid](assets/moveit_demo.gif)
 Watch video [here](https://youtu.be/a_HEmYzqEnk)

### Installation

ROS Melodic (melodic-devel branch): [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/justagist/panda_simulator.svg?branch=melodic-devel)](https://travis-ci.org/justagist/panda_simulator)

ROS Kinetic (kinetic-devel branch): [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/justagist/panda_simulator.svg?branch=kinetic-devel)](https://travis-ci.org/justagist/panda_simulator)

#### Dependencies

- *libfranka* (`apt install ros-${ROS_DISTRO}-libfranka` or [install from source][libfranka-doc])
- *franka-ros* (`apt install ros-${ROS_DISTRO}-franka-ros` or [install from source][libfranka-doc])
- `pip install -r requirements.txt`

For other possible missing dependencies, check the `apt` packages specified in Dockerfile.

The following dependencies can be installed using the `.rosinstall` file (instructions in next section)

- [*Franka ROS Interface*][fri-repo]
- [*franka_panda_description*][fpd-repo] (urdf and model files from *panda_description* package modified to work in Gazebo, and with the custom controllers)
- [*orocos-kinematics-dynamics*](https://github.com/orocos/orocos_kinematics_dynamics)

#### Building the Package

1.Clone the repo:

```bash
    cd <catkin_ws>/src
    git clone https://github.com/justagist/panda_simulator
```

Steps 2 and 3 can be automated by running `./build_ws.sh` from `<catkin_ws>/src/panda_simulator`.

2.Update dependency packages:

```bash
    wstool init
    wstool merge panda_simulator/dependencies.rosinstall
    wstool up

    # use old ros-compatible version of kdl
    cd orocos_kinematics_dynamics && git checkout b35c424e77ebc5b7e6f1c5e5c34f8a4666fbf5bc
    cd ../.. && rosdep install -y --from-paths src --ignore-src --rosdistro $ROS_DISTRO
```

3.Once the dependencies are met, the package can be installed using catkin_make:

```bash
    source /opt/ros/$ROS_DISTRO/setup.bash
    catkin build # if catkin not found, install catkin tools (apt install python-catkin-tools)
    source devel/setup.bash
```

### Docker Build (experimental!)

**Requires [nvidia-docker](https://github.com/nvidia/nvidia-docker/wiki/Installation-(version-2.0))**

*NOTE: The image for kinetic version is larger than that of the melodic version (~ 1.5x). This is because it uses [cudagl](https://hub.docker.com/r/nvidia/cudagl) image as base to facilitate rendering (without this, opengl does not seem to work for kinetic docker image, and rviz and gazebo fails to load).*

- To build the docker image of the package, run `docker build docker/ -t ps_${ROS_DISTRO}:v1.0.0`, or pull built image from github (`docker pull docker.pkg.github.com/justagist/panda_simulator/ps_${ROS_DISTRO}:v1.0.0`).
Note: Even when using the docker image, this repository has to be cloned on to the host machine.
- To run the built image interactively, run the script `./run_docker.sh` from the cloned repository. The container starts in a catkin workspace (directory location in host machine: `$HOME/.panda_sim_${ROS_DISTRO}_ws`). The host's home directory is also mounted in the container for access to `.ros/` and for making the catkin workspace writable.
- When running for the first time, the catkin workspace has to be built (`cd src/panda_simulator && ./build_ws.sh`).
- If everything was successfully built in the previous step, you should be able to run the simulator (see [Usage](#usage) section below).

Any edits made to the host directory will be reflected in the docker container (and vice-versa). You can also run and build other ROS nodes and packages without having any ROS installation on the host machine.

### Usage

The simulator can be started by running:

```bash
    roslaunch panda_gazebo panda_world.launch # (use argument load_gripper:=false for starting without gripper; see other available arguments in launch file)
```

To start without moveit server, add the argument `start_moveit:=false` to the command. This is sometimes necessary for starting nodes in the right order

This exposes a variety of ROS topics and services for communicating with and controlling the robot in simulation. The robot can also be controlled using the [Franka ROS Interface](https://github.com/justagist/franka_ros_interface) package and/or [PandaRobot](https://github.com/justagist/panda_robot) APIs.

#### Demos

To run these demos, launch the simulator first: `roslaunch panda_gazebo panda_world.launch`. The following demos can then be tested:

- Run `roslaunch panda_simulator_examples demo_moveit.launch` to run a demo for testing the moveit planner interface with the simulated robot. This script starts a moveit RViz GUI for motion planning and terminal interface for modifying planning scene.

- Run `roslaunch panda_simulator_examples demo_task_space_control.launch` to run a demo showing the task-space control. By default, the demo uses the (Franka ROS Interface) API to retrieve state information, and to control it using torque control (see [script](panda_simulator_examples/scripts/task_space_control_with_fri.py)). Another script demonstrating the same functionality without using the Franka ROS Interface API, and only the ROS
topics from the simulation is also [provided](panda_simulator_examples/scripts/task_space_control_using_sim_only.py).

- Another (much simpler) demo ['move_robot.py'](panda_simulator_examples/scripts/task_space_control_using_sim_only.py) is provided demonstrating (i) controlling the robot in the joint space, (ii) retrieving state information of the robot.

##### Task-space Impedance Control Demo

  ![vid](assets/ts_demo.gif)
 Watch video [here](https://youtu.be/a_HEmYzqEnk)

#### Some useful ROS topics

##### Published Topics

| ROS Topic | Data |
| ------ | ------ |
| */panda_simulator/custom_franka_state_controller/robot_state* | gravity, coriolis, jacobian, cartesian velocity, etc. |
| */panda_simulator/custom_franka_state_controller/tip_state* | end-effector pose, wrench, etc. |
| */panda_simulator/joint_states* | joint positions, velocities, efforts |

##### Subscribed Topics

| ROS Topic | Data |
| ------ | ------ |
| */panda_simulator/motion_controller/arm/joint_commands* | command the robot using the currently active controller |
| */panda_simulator/franka_gripper/move* | (action msg) command the joints of the gripper |

Other topics for changing the controller gains (also dynamically configurable), command timeout, etc. are also available.

#### ROS Services

Controller manager service can be used to switch between all available controllers (joint position, velocity, effort). Gripper joints can be controlled using the ROS ActionClient (via the same topics as the real robot and [*franka_ros*][franka-ros]).

### Known Issues

1. In some computers, the launch file fails to start the trajectory controller server, or starts the required nodes in a different order. This may result in different errors with the moveit servers, or with the controller manager. In this case, the simplest option is to start the simulator without moveit (`roslaunch panda_gazebo panda_world.launch start_moveit:=false`), and then start the moveit server separately once the simulator is fully loaded (`roslaunch panda_sim_moveit sim_move_group.launch`).

2. `[ERROR] Exception while loading planning adapter plugin 'default_planner_request_adapters/ResolveConstraintFrames` in melodic. This can be [safely ignored](https://github.com/ros-planning/moveit/issues/1655).

3. Gripper control and model definition is not completely developed, and gripper control may not produce the required performance.

4. Gravity compensation when using velocity or torque controller with gripper is not very good. This is bypassed by deactivating simulator gravity by default (see [`panda.world`](panda_gazebo/worlds/panda.world)).

### Version Update

Check [versionLog.md](https://github.com/justagist/panda_simulator/blob/melodic-devel/versionLog.md).

## Related Packages

- [*Franka ROS Interface*][fri-repo] : A ROS API for controlling and managing the Franka Emika Panda robot (real and simulated). Contains controllers for the robot (joint position, velocity, torque), interfaces for the gripper, controller manager, coordinate frames interface, etc.. Provides almost complete sim-to-real transfer of code.
- [*PandaRobot*](https://github.com/justagist/panda_robot) : Python interface providing higher-level control of the robot integrated with its gripper, controller manager, coordinate frames manager, etc. It also provides access to the kinematics and dynamics of the robot using the [KDL library](http://wiki.ros.org/kdl).

The [*Franka ROS Interface*][fri-repo] package provides Python API and interface tools to control and communicate with the robot using the ROS topics and services exposed by the simulator. Since the simulator exposes similar information and controllers as the *robot_state_controller_node* of the [*Franka ROS Interface*][fri-repo], the API can be used to control both the real robot, and the simulated robot in this package, with minimum change in code.

### License

[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache%202.0-blue.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/Apache-2.0)

Copyright (c) 2019-2020, Saif Sidhik

If you use this software, please cite it using [![DOI](https://zenodo.org/badge/DOI/10.5281/zenodo.3747459.svg)](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3747459).

   [fri-repo]: <https://github.com/justagist/franka_ros_interface>
   [fpd-repo]: <https://github.com/justagist/franka_panda_description>
   [libfranka-doc]: <https://frankaemika.github.io/docs/installation_linux.html#building-from-source>
   [franka-ros]: <https://frankaemika.github.io/docs/franka_ros.html>
